The Fundamental Law of Education
Having established the Constitution of Japan, we have shown our resolution to contribute to the peace of the world and welfare of humanity by building a democratic and cultural state.
The realization of this ideal shall depend fundamentally on the power of education.
We shall esteem individual dignity and endeavor to bring up the people who love truth and peace, while education which aims at the creation of culture general and rich in individuality shall be spread far and wide.
We hereby enact this Law, in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution of Japan, with a view to clarifying the aim of education and establishing the foundation of education for a new Japan.
Article 1. Aim of Education
Education shall aim at the full development of personality, striving for the rearing of people, sound in mind and body, who shall love truth and justice, esteem individual value, respect labor, have a deep sense of responsibility, and be imbued with an independent spirit, as builders of the peaceful state and society.
Article 2. Educational Principle
The aim of education shall be realized on all occasions and in all places.
In order to achieve the aim, we shall endeavor to contribute to the creation and development of culture by mutual esteem and cooperation, respecting academic freedom, having a regard for actual life and cultivating a spontaneous spirit.
Article 3. Equal Opportunity in Education
The people shall all be given equal opportunities of receiving education according to their ability, and they shall not be subject to educational discrimination on account of race, creed, sex, social status, economic position, or family origin.
The state and local public bodies shall take measures to give financial assistance to those who have, with all their ability, difficulty in receiving education for economic reasons.
Article 4. Compulsory Education
The people shall be obligated to have boys and girls under their protection receive nine-year general education.
No tuition fee shall be charged for compulsory education in schools established by the state and local public bodies.
Article 5. Co-Education
Men and women shall esteem and cooperate with each other. Co-education, therefore, shall be recognized in education.
Article 6. School Education
The schools prescribed by law shall be of public nature and, besides the state and local public bodies, only the juridical persons prescribed by law shall be entitled to establish such schools.
Teachers of the schools prescribed by law shall be servants of the whole community. They shall be conscious of their mission and endeavor to discharge their duties.
For this purpose, the status of teachers shall be respected and their fair and appropriate treatment shall be secured.
Article 7. Social Education
The state and local public bodies shall encourage education carried out at home, in places of work and elsewhere in society.
The state and local public bodies shall endeavor to attain the aim of education by the establishment of such institutions as libraries, museums, citizens' public halls, etc., by the utilization of school institutions, and by other appropriate methods.
Article 8. Political Education
The political knowledge necessary for intelligent citizenship shall be valued in education.
The schools prescribed by law shall refrain from political education or other political activities for or against any specific political party.
Article 9. Religious Education
The attitude of religious tolerance and the position of religion in social life shall be valued in education.
The schools established by the state and local public bodies shall refrain from religious education or other activities for a specific religion.
Article 10. School Administration
Education shall not be subject to improper control, but it shall be directly responsible to the whole people.
School administration shall, on the basis of this realization, aim at the adjustment and establishment of the various conditions required for the pursuit of the aim of education.
Article 11. Additional Rule
In case of necessity appropriate laws shall be enacted to carry the foregoing stipulations into effect.
Supplementary Provision:
This present law shall come into force as from the date of its promulgation.
